The repository contains solutions for some of the problems presented during the course of Statistal Analysis of Experimental Data in the Department of Physics at Warsaw University.
All the documents are written in jupyter notebooks. 

1. Notebook error_propagation contains the solution for the following problem: given the dimensions of a cube $a$, $b$, and $c$ with their uncertainties, what is the uncertainty of its volume, area and total length of its edges? Are these entities correlated? Check the result with a  simulation.
2. Notebook monte_carlo_integration presents the integration of the volume of a complicated solid with the help of Monte Carlo method. The points are randomly drawn from a limited area and are classified to be lying inside the solid or outside its boundries. The ratio of the points inside the solid to the total number of the drawn points gives the volume.
3. Notebook likelihood_ratio_method presents a strategy to obtain the maximum gain in the following problem: among 1000 sensors, 50% are good and the other half does not work. The good ones have a precision of $\sigma_{1}=0.05$ mm in two dimensions, and the bad ones $\sigma_{2}=0.25$ mm. How can we choose the good ones only by measuring them? (We can't switch them on and off). We want to maximize our gain, given that we have to pay 10$ for each sensor that we buy and we can sell the good ones fo 12$.
4. Notebook machine_learning_random_forest presents a method of event selection where background and singal distributions are known. The analytical solution is compared with the ML Random Forest selection algorithm.

